contracts/README.md, before:

## Foundry

**Foundry is a blazing fast, portable and modular toolkit for Ethereum application development written in Rust.**

Foundry consists of:

-   **Forge**: Ethereum testing framework (like Truffle, Hardhat and DappTools).
-   **Cast**: Swiss army knife for interacting with EVM smart contracts, sending transactions and getting chain data.
-   **Anvil**: Local Ethereum node, akin to Ganache, Hardhat Network.
-   **Chisel**: Fast, utilitarian, and verbose solidity REPL.

## Documentation

https://book.getfoundry.sh/

## Usage

### Build

```shell
$ forge build
```

### Test

```shell
$ forge test
```

### Format

```shell
$ forge fmt
```

### Gas Snapshots

```shell
$ forge snapshot
```

### Anvil

```shell
$ anvil
```

### Deploy

```shell
$ forge script script/Counter.s.sol:CounterScript --rpc-url <your_rpc_url> --private-key <your_private_key>
```

### Deploy ISMEspressoTEHyperlaneContracts2ChainsGetterEVerifier

```shell
$ forge script script/Counter.s.sol:CounterScript --rpc-url <your_rpc_url> --private-key <your_private_key>
```

### Cast

```shell
$ cast <subcommand>
```

### Help

```shell
$ forge --help
$ anvil --help
$ cast --help
```

Commit message:

Yt/dockersetup (#3)
* docker setup validator WIP

* update validator, signer to AWS KMS signer, add readme

* add bucket config, policy, updatereadme, update bash scripts

* add bucket config, policy, updatereadme, update bash scripts

* fix env bug

* rewrite dockercompose, update readme, fix errors, add fund signers script, gitignore and local db path

* move to hyperlane folder and rename

* deploy and update Multisig on Mailboxes, add tests, scripts, update readmes

* update readme

* fix typo

contracts/README.md, after:

## Foundry

**Foundry is a blazing fast, portable and modular toolkit for Ethereum application development written in Rust.**

Foundry consists of:

-   **Forge**: Ethereum testing framework (like Truffle, Hardhat and DappTools).
-   **Cast**: Swiss army knife for interacting with EVM smart contracts, sending transactions and getting chain data.
-   **Anvil**: Local Ethereum node, akin to Ganache, Hardhat Network.
-   **Chisel**: Fast, utilitarian, and verbose solidity REPL.

## Documentation

https://book.getfoundry.sh/

## Usage

### Build

```shell
$ forge build
```

### Test

```shell
$ forge test
```

### Format

```shell
$ forge fmt
```

### Gas Snapshots

```shell
$ forge snapshot
```

### Anvil

```shell
$ anvil
```

### Deploy

```shell
$ forge script script/Counter.s.sol:CounterScript --rpc-url <your_rpc_url> --private-key <your_private_key>
```

### Deploy DeployAndUpdateISMMultisig to specific chain

```shell
$ forge script script/DeployAndUpdateISMMultisig.s.sol:DeployAndUpdateISMMultisigScript  --rpc-url <your_rpc_url> --private-key <your_private_key> --broadcast --via-ir
```

### Deploy DeployAndUpdateISMMultisig to source and destionation local chains
```shell
$ ./deploy-ism-multisig-2-chains.sh
```

### Cast

```shell
$ cast <subcommand>
```

### Help

```shell
$ forge --help
$ anvil --help
$ cast --help
```
